README.md, before:

[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/discordrb.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/discordrb)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/dt/discordrb.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/discordrb)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/discordrb/discordrb.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Inline docs](https://inch-ci.org/github/discordrb/discordrb.svg?branch=master&style=shields)](https://inch-ci.org/github/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/coverage)
[![Join Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-7289DA.svg)](https://discord.gg/cyK3Hjm)
# discordrb

An implementation of the [Discord](https://discordapp.com/) API using Ruby.

## Quick links to sections

* [Dependencies](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#dependencies)
* [Installation](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#installation)
* [Usage](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#usage)
* [Webhooks Client](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#webhooks-client)
* [Support](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#support)
* [Development](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#development), [Contributing](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#contributing)
* [License](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#license)

See also: [Documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/discordrb), [Tutorials](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki)

## Dependencies

* Ruby >= 2.4 supported
* An installed build system for native extensions (on Windows, make sure you download the "Ruby+Devkit" version of [RubyInstaller](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/))

> **Note:** RubyInstaller for Ruby versions 2.4+ will install the DevKit as the last step of the installation.

### Voice dependencies

This section only applies to you if you want to use voice functionality.
* [libsodium](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Installing-libsodium)
* A compiled libopus distribution for your system, anywhere the script can find it. See [here](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Installing-libopus) for installation instructions.
* [FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) installed and in your PATH

In addition to this, if you're on Windows and want to use voice functionality, your installed Ruby version **needs to be 32 bit**, as otherwise Opus won't work.

## Installation

### With Bundler

Using [Bundler](https://bundler.io/#getting-started), you can add discordrb to your Gemfile:

    gem 'discordrb'

And then install via `bundle install`.

Run the [ping example](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/blob/master/examples/ping.rb) to verify that the installation works (make sure to replace the token and client ID in there with your bots'!):

To run the bot while using bundler:

    bundle exec ruby ping.rb

### With Gem

Alternatively, while Bundler is the recommended option, you can also install discordrb without it.

#### Linux / macOS

    gem install discordrb

#### Windows

> **Make sure you have the DevKit installed! See the [Dependencies](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#dependencies) section)**

    gem install discordrb --platform=ruby

To run the bot:

    ruby ping.rb

#### Troubleshooting

**If you get an error like this when installing the gem**:

    ERROR:  Error installing discordrb:
            The 'websocket-driver' native gem requires installed build tools.

You're missing the development kit required to build native extensions.

##### RubyInstaller for ruby 2.4.3-2 and above

RubyInstaller after version 2.3.3 now includes the development kit in the installer. If you do not have the development kit and have installed ruby using RubyInstaller, open a command prompt with administrator privileges and run:

    ridk install

Select option 3, and then run

    ridk enable

To enable the changes

**If Ruby complains about `ffi_c` not being able to be found:**

For example

    C:/Ruby25-x64/lib/ruby/2.5.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:55:in `require': cannot load such file -- ffi_c (LoadError)

Your ffi setup is screwed up, first run `gem uninstall ffi` (uninstall all versions if it asks you, say yes to any unmet dependencies), then run `gem install ffi --platform=ruby` to fix it. If it says something about build tools, follow the steps in the first troubleshooting section.

**If you're having trouble getting voice playback to work**:

Look here: https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Voice-sending#troubleshooting

## Usage

You can make a simple bot like this:

```ruby
require 'discordrb'

bot = Discordrb::Bot.new token: '<token here>'

bot.message(with_text: 'Ping!') do |event|
  event.respond 'Pong!'
end

bot.run
```

This bot responds to every "Ping!" with a "Pong!".

See [additional examples here](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/tree/master/examples).

You can find examples of projects that use discordrb by [searching for the discordrb topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/discordrb).

If you've made an open source project on GitHub that uses discordrb, consider adding the `discordrb` topic to your repo!

## Webhooks Client

Also included is a webhooks client, which can be used as a separate gem `discordrb-webhooks`. This special client can be used to form requests to Discord webhook URLs in a high-level manner.

- [`discordrb-webhooks` documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/discordrb-webhooks)
- [More information about webhooks](https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks)
- [Embed visualizer tool](https://leovoel.github.io/embed-visualizer/) - Includes a discordrb code generator for forming embeds

### Usage

```ruby
require 'discordrb/webhooks'

WEBHOOK_URL = 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/424070213278105610/yByxDncRvHi02mhKQheviQI2erKkfRRwFcEp0MMBfib1ds6ZHN13xhPZNS2-fJo_ApSw'.freeze

client = Discordrb::Webhooks::Client.new(url: WEBHOOK_URL)
client.execute do |builder|
  builder.content = 'Hello world!'
  builder.add_embed do |embed|
    embed.title = 'Embed title'
    embed.description = 'Embed description'
    embed.timestamp = Time.now
  end
end
```

**Note:** The `discordrb` gem relies on `discordrb-webhooks`. If you already have `discordrb` installed, `require 'discordrb/webhooks'` will include all of the `Webhooks` features as well.

## Support

You can find me (@meew0, ID 66237334693085184) on the unofficial Discord API server - if you have a question, just ask there, I or somebody else will probably answer you: https://discord.gg/3Trm6FW

## Development

**This section is for developing discordrb itself! If you just want to make a bot, see the [Installation](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#installation) section.**

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. You can then run tests via `bundle exec rspec spec`. Make sure to run rubocop also: `bundle exec rubocop`. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

No need to invite an explicit user ping
While admittedly it hasn't been a problem thus far, there's no need to leave the reference open to pinging meew0 for support. Volunteers are all present with their respective knowledge, and will help out how/when possible.

README.md, after:

[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/discordrb.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/discordrb)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/dt/discordrb.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/discordrb)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/discordrb/discordrb.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Inline docs](https://inch-ci.org/github/discordrb/discordrb.svg?branch=master&style=shields)](https://inch-ci.org/github/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/discordrb/discordrb/coverage)
[![Join Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join-7289DA.svg)](https://discord.gg/cyK3Hjm)
# discordrb

An implementation of the [Discord](https://discordapp.com/) API using Ruby.

## Quick links to sections

* [Dependencies](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#dependencies)
* [Installation](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#installation)
* [Usage](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#usage)
* [Webhooks Client](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#webhooks-client)
* [Support](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#support)
* [Development](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#development), [Contributing](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#contributing)
* [License](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#license)

See also: [Documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/discordrb), [Tutorials](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki)

## Dependencies

* Ruby >= 2.4 supported
* An installed build system for native extensions (on Windows, make sure you download the "Ruby+Devkit" version of [RubyInstaller](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/))

> **Note:** RubyInstaller for Ruby versions 2.4+ will install the DevKit as the last step of the installation.

### Voice dependencies

This section only applies to you if you want to use voice functionality.
* [libsodium](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Installing-libsodium)
* A compiled libopus distribution for your system, anywhere the script can find it. See [here](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Installing-libopus) for installation instructions.
* [FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) installed and in your PATH

In addition to this, if you're on Windows and want to use voice functionality, your installed Ruby version **needs to be 32 bit**, as otherwise Opus won't work.

## Installation

### With Bundler

Using [Bundler](https://bundler.io/#getting-started), you can add discordrb to your Gemfile:

    gem 'discordrb'

And then install via `bundle install`.

Run the [ping example](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/blob/master/examples/ping.rb) to verify that the installation works (make sure to replace the token and client ID in there with your bots'!):

To run the bot while using bundler:

    bundle exec ruby ping.rb

### With Gem

Alternatively, while Bundler is the recommended option, you can also install discordrb without it.

#### Linux / macOS

    gem install discordrb

#### Windows

> **Make sure you have the DevKit installed! See the [Dependencies](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#dependencies) section)**

    gem install discordrb --platform=ruby

To run the bot:

    ruby ping.rb

#### Troubleshooting

**If you get an error like this when installing the gem**:

    ERROR:  Error installing discordrb:
            The 'websocket-driver' native gem requires installed build tools.

You're missing the development kit required to build native extensions.

##### RubyInstaller for ruby 2.4.3-2 and above

RubyInstaller after version 2.3.3 now includes the development kit in the installer. If you do not have the development kit and have installed ruby using RubyInstaller, open a command prompt with administrator privileges and run:

    ridk install

Select option 3, and then run

    ridk enable

To enable the changes

**If Ruby complains about `ffi_c` not being able to be found:**

For example

    C:/Ruby25-x64/lib/ruby/2.5.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:55:in `require': cannot load such file -- ffi_c (LoadError)

Your ffi setup is screwed up, first run `gem uninstall ffi` (uninstall all versions if it asks you, say yes to any unmet dependencies), then run `gem install ffi --platform=ruby` to fix it. If it says something about build tools, follow the steps in the first troubleshooting section.

**If you're having trouble getting voice playback to work**:

Look here: https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/wiki/Voice-sending#troubleshooting

## Usage

You can make a simple bot like this:

```ruby
require 'discordrb'

bot = Discordrb::Bot.new token: '<token here>'

bot.message(with_text: 'Ping!') do |event|
  event.respond 'Pong!'
end

bot.run
```

This bot responds to every "Ping!" with a "Pong!".

See [additional examples here](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb/tree/master/examples).

You can find examples of projects that use discordrb by [searching for the discordrb topic on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/discordrb).

If you've made an open source project on GitHub that uses discordrb, consider adding the `discordrb` topic to your repo!

## Webhooks Client

Also included is a webhooks client, which can be used as a separate gem `discordrb-webhooks`. This special client can be used to form requests to Discord webhook URLs in a high-level manner.

- [`discordrb-webhooks` documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/discordrb-webhooks)
- [More information about webhooks](https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks)
- [Embed visualizer tool](https://leovoel.github.io/embed-visualizer/) - Includes a discordrb code generator for forming embeds

### Usage

```ruby
require 'discordrb/webhooks'

WEBHOOK_URL = 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/424070213278105610/yByxDncRvHi02mhKQheviQI2erKkfRRwFcEp0MMBfib1ds6ZHN13xhPZNS2-fJo_ApSw'.freeze

client = Discordrb::Webhooks::Client.new(url: WEBHOOK_URL)
client.execute do |builder|
  builder.content = 'Hello world!'
  builder.add_embed do |embed|
    embed.title = 'Embed title'
    embed.description = 'Embed description'
    embed.timestamp = Time.now
  end
end
```

**Note:** The `discordrb` gem relies on `discordrb-webhooks`. If you already have `discordrb` installed, `require 'discordrb/webhooks'` will include all of the `Webhooks` features as well.

## Support

You can find us on the unofficial Discord API server - if you have a question just ask there. Support is provided on a volunteer basis, those available will try to answer your question when possible: https://discord.gg/3Trm6FW

## Development

**This section is for developing discordrb itself! If you just want to make a bot, see the [Installation](https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb#installation) section.**

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. You can then run tests via `bundle exec rspec spec`. Make sure to run rubocop also: `bundle exec rubocop`. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/discordrb/discordrb.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
